Detection requires data, and
this data can come from
various data sources.
You've already explored how
different devices produce logs.
Now we'll examine how different
detection technologies
monitor devices and
log different types
of system activity,
like network and
endpoint telemetry.
Telemetry is the collection and
transmission of
data for analysis.
While logs record events
occurring on systems,
telemetry describes
the data itself.
For example, packet captures
are considered
network telemetry.
For security professionals,
logs and telemetry
are sources of
evidence that can be used to
answer questions
during investigations.
Previously, you learned about
an intrusion detection
system, or IDS.
Remember that IDS is
an application that
monitors activity and alerts
on possible intrusions.
This includes monitoring
different parts of
a system or network
like an endpoint.
An endpoint is any device
connected on a network,
such as a laptop,
tablet, desktop computer,
or a smartphone.
Endpoints are entry points into
a network, which makes
them key targets
for malicious actors
looking to gain
unauthorized access
into a system.
To monitor endpoints
for threats or attacks,
a host-based intrusion
detection system can be used.
It's an application
that monitors
the activity of the host
on which it's installed.
To clarify, a host
is any device that
communicates with other
devices on a network,
similar to an endpoint.
Host-based intrusion
detection systems
are installed as an
agent on a single host,
such as a laptop
computer or a server.
Depending on its configuration,
host-based intrusion
detection systems
will monitor the host
on which it's installed to
detect suspicious activity.
Once something has
been detected,
it records output as logs
and an alert gets generated.
What if we wanted to
monitor a network?
A network-based intrusion
detection system collects
and analyzes network
traffic and network data.
Network-based intrusion
detection systems
work similar to packet sniffers
because they analyze
network traffic and
network data on a specific
point in the network.
It's common to deploy
multiple IDS sensors at
different points in the network
to achieve adequate visibility.
When suspicious or unusual
network activity is detected,
the network-based
intrusion detection system
logs it and generates an alert.
In this example, the
network-based intrusion
detection system is
monitoring the traffic
that's both coming
from and going to the internet.
Intrusion detection systems use
different types of
detection methods.
One of the most common methods
is signature analysis.
Signature analysis is
a detection method
used to find events
of interest.
A signature specifies
a set of rules that an
IDS refers to when it
monitors activity.
If the activity matches the
rules in the signature,
the IDS logs it and
sends out an alert.
For example, a signature can be
written to generate an alert if
a failed login on a system
happens three times in a row,
which suggests a possible
password attack.
Before alerts are generated,
the activity must be logged.
IDS technologies record the
information of the devices,
systems, and networks which
they monitor as IDS logs.
IDS logs can then
be sent, stored,
and analyzed in a centralized
log repository like a SIEM.
Coming up, we'll
explore how to read and
configure signatures.
Meet you there!